

Introduction:

As of April 2019, Toronto and Los Angeles are the largest cities in
North America where the recreational trade in marijuana is legal.  They
are both global cities rich in ethnic and socio-economic diversity, and
anchor countries with strong cultural affinities.

Although the regulated sale of marijuana for medical purposes has been
legal in Los Angeles since 1996, licensed dispensaries for recreational
consumers were not legalized until 2018, after which their number
exploded around the city.  In addition, a great many unlicensed
dispensaries operate outside of the law.

Meanwhile medical marijuana sold through licensed clinics and government
stores has been legal in Canada since 2001. In 2018, Canada legalized
the use of recreational marijuana, and in April 2019 Ontario became the
first Canadian province to legalize private dispensaries subject to
licensing. The number of licensed private dispensaries is currently
small, but expected to grow rapidly.

Setting aside the disparate regulatory regimes governing licensure in
both jurisdictions, which is beyond the scope of this investigation,
this study asks what the experience of Los Angeles can tell us about how
the licensed marijuana trade may develop in Toronto.  How are marijuana
dispensaries distributed across Los Angeles, and what factors are
correlated with that distribution?  What role, if any, do the population
density, demographics, and socio-economic profile of a neighborhood
play?  Based on these findings, where in Toronto can we expect licensed
dispensaries to open?

The target audiences for this study are policymakers, entrepreneurs and 
academics who wish to understand the dynamics underlying the growth in
licensed marijuana retail establishments. 



Data Description:

To answer these questions, this study will draw on the following data
sets:

Government OpenData Sets:

Comprehensive 2016 Canadian Census data for Toronto wards 
Comprehensive 2010 United States Census for Los Angeles neighborhoods 
GeoJson files delimiting the wards/neighborhoods of Toronto and Los Angeles 
Marijuana business registration records from the city of Los Angeles

Foursquare API:

Foursquare has assigned marijuana dispensaries a special categoryID, and
I will query the API for results from each ward/neighborhood.  Also, I will
query what other businesses are clustered in the immediate vicinity of
dispensaries to search for patterns.



Briefly, the city of Toronto is divided into 25 wards, with a total area
of 630.21 sq. km, and a total population of approximately 2.7 million
people.  The city of Los Angeles is divided into 97 neighborhoods, with
a total area of 1302.15 sq. km., and a total population of approximately
4 million people.